README.md, before:

# symfony-standard-headers-csrf-bundle

![CI](https://github.com/marein/symfony-standard-headers-csrf-bundle/workflows/CI/badge.svg?branch=master)

__Table of contents__

* [Overview](#overview)
  * [How it works?](#how-it-works)
* [Installation and requirements](#installation-and-requirements)
* [Configuration](#configuration)
* [Public api](#public-api)

## Overview

Protect symfony applications against CSRF attacks with the help of standard headers.

The mechanism to prevent CSRF attacks which is used by this bundle can best be read under
[OWASP](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Cross-Site_Request_Forgery_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet.html#verifying-origin-with-standard-headers).
The technique is named "Verifying Origin With Standard Headers".

### How it works?

This bundle is based on the headers `Host`, `Origin` and `Referer`. They're part of the
[forbidden headers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Forbidden_header_name)
and cannot be changed programmatically with a standard browser. Please read the
[OWASP](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Cross-Site_Request_Forgery_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet.html#verifying-origin-with-standard-headers)
page carefully as this technique may not work in all cases.

This bundle returns a status code `403` if the request isn't safe.
A request is safe if at least one of the following criteria is met:
* the http method is a safe http method.
* the request path doesn't match one of the `protected_paths` from the configuration.
* the origin header matches the `Host` header or one of the `allowed_origins` from the configuration.
* `fallback_to_referer` is enabled and the `Referer` header matches the `Host`
header or one of the `allowed_origins` from the configuration.
* `allow_null_origin` is enabled and the `Origin` header is equal to `"null"`.

If there're trusted proxies configured in your symfony application,
`X-Forwarded-Host` is used instead of `Host`.

## Installation and requirements

Add the bundle to your project.

```
composer require marein/symfony-standard-headers-csrf-bundle
```

Add the bundle in the kernel. This can be different for your setup.

```php
public function registerBundles()
{
    return [
        // ...
        new \Marein\StandardHeadersCsrfBundle\MareinStandardHeadersCsrfBundle(),
        // ...
    ];
}
```

## Configuration

This is an example of all configurations in yaml format.

```yaml
marein_standard_headers_csrf:
    # A list of regular expressions that are tested against the URL path.
    # If a match is found, the request is considered unsafe and must be checked against CSRF attacks.
    #
    # Note:
    # If you manage an api that isn't called from a browser and has
    # an authentication mechanism other than cookies, you can also negate
    # the regular expression and protect everything except the specific api
    # path. For example with ['^(?!/api)'] as the value.
    #
    # Type: string[]
    # Default: ['^/']
    protected_paths:
        - '^/me'
        - '^/user'

    # A list of origins that are trusted.
    #
    # Type: string[]
    # Default: []
    allowed_origins:
        - 'http://my-domain.com'
        - 'https://my-domain.com'
        - 'http://my-other-domain.com'
        - 'https://my-other-domain.com'

    # Allowed origins are also compared to the referer header if there's no origin header.
    #
    # Type: bool
    # Default: true
    fallback_to_referer: true

    # Allows "null" as the origin value. This covers some edge cases described by OWASP.
    #
    # Type: bool
    # Default: false
    allow_null_origin: false
```

## Public api

Only the bundle configuration is part of the public api. Everything else can change and
is not considered a breaking change. Please don't use classes or services directly.

Commit message:

Use allowed_paths instead of protected_paths (#6)
* Use allowed_paths instead of protected_paths #4

README.md, after:

# symfony-standard-headers-csrf-bundle

![CI](https://github.com/marein/symfony-standard-headers-csrf-bundle/workflows/CI/badge.svg?branch=master)

__Table of contents__

* [Overview](#overview)
  * [How it works?](#how-it-works)
* [Installation and requirements](#installation-and-requirements)
* [Configuration](#configuration)
* [Public api](#public-api)

## Overview

Protect symfony applications against CSRF attacks with the help of standard headers.

The mechanism to prevent CSRF attacks which is used by this bundle can best be read under
[OWASP](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Cross-Site_Request_Forgery_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet.html#verifying-origin-with-standard-headers).
The technique is named "Verifying Origin With Standard Headers".

### How it works?

This bundle is based on the headers `Host`, `Origin` and `Referer`. They're part of the
[forbidden headers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Forbidden_header_name)
and cannot be changed programmatically with a standard browser. Please read the
[OWASP](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Cross-Site_Request_Forgery_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet.html#verifying-origin-with-standard-headers)
page carefully as this technique may not work in all cases.

This bundle returns a status code `403` if the request isn't safe.
A request is safe if at least one of the following criteria is met:
* the http method is a safe http method.
* the request path matches one of the `allowed_paths` from the configuration.
* the origin header matches the `Host` header or one of the `allowed_origins` from the configuration.
* `fallback_to_referer` is enabled and the `Referer` header matches the `Host`
header or one of the `allowed_origins` from the configuration.
* `allow_null_origin` is enabled and the `Origin` header is equal to `"null"`.

If there're trusted proxies configured in your symfony application,
`X-Forwarded-Host` is used instead of `Host`.

## Installation and requirements

Add the bundle to your project.

```
composer require marein/symfony-standard-headers-csrf-bundle
```

Add the bundle in the kernel. This can be different for your setup.

```php
public function registerBundles()
{
    return [
        // ...
        new \Marein\StandardHeadersCsrfBundle\MareinStandardHeadersCsrfBundle(),
        // ...
    ];
}
```

## Configuration

This is an example of all configurations in yaml format.

```yaml
marein_standard_headers_csrf:
    # A list of regular expressions that are tested against the URL path.
    # If a match is found, the request is considered safe and isn't
    # checked against CSRF attacks. This is useful for paths that aren't
    # vulnerable to CSRF.
    #
    # Type: string[]
    # Default: []
    allowed_paths:
        - '^/api'

    # A list of origins that are trusted.
    #
    # Type: string[]
    # Default: []
    allowed_origins:
        - 'http://my-domain.com'
        - 'https://my-domain.com'
        - 'http://my-other-domain.com'
        - 'https://my-other-domain.com'

    # Allowed origins are also compared to the referer header if there's no origin header.
    #
    # Type: bool
    # Default: true
    fallback_to_referer: true

    # Allows "null" as the origin value. This covers some edge cases described by OWASP.
    #
    # Type: bool
    # Default: false
    allow_null_origin: false
```

## Public api

Only the bundle configuration is part of the public api. Everything else can change and
is not considered a breaking change. Please don't use classes or services directly.
